The man responsible for a gang-related shooting that killed 9-year-old Trinity Ottoson-Smith as she was jumping on a trampoline in North Minneapolis two years ago pleaded guilty to murder on Monday. Jury selection was set to begin for D'Pree Shareef Robinson, but the 20-year-old changed his plea, waiving his right to a trial and instead agreeing to 37 1⁄2 year prison sentence, according to Hennepin County Attorney Mary Moriarty. It was a drive-by gang shooting, according to charges of second-degree murder and court filings for evidence that was to be presented by prosecutors at trial. The shooting was also captured on video surveillance and a license plate reader tied the car used in the shooting to Robinson, who bought the vehicle three days earlier. Ottoson-Smith had been jumping on a friend's trampoline May 15, 2021 in a residential backyard in the 2200 block of N. Ilion Avenue— directly between Robinson and the intended targets. Two other kids were on the trampoline with her. She died in the hospital 12 days later. "Trinity was doing what kids should be doing in spring time in Minnesota, playing with friends and having fun outside," Moriarty said in a statement. "Mr. Robinson's actions shocked our community and devastated her family and all who loved her. I'm hopeful his admission of guilt begins to bring some degree of closure for Trinity's family and the community."  She was one of three children gravely wounded or killed within a three-week span when they were shot in the head on Minneapolis' North Side. Ladavionne Garrett Jr., 10, was shot April 30 while riding in a vehicle in Minneapolis and Aniya Allen, 6, died May 19, two days after being shot while riding in her mother's car. Ottoson-Smith's killing is the only one to result in an arrest. A reward of up to $180,000 is offered for information in the shootings of Garrett Jr. and Allen. Robinson was booked and charged with murder nine months after the shooting in February 2022. A jury indicted him on first-degree murder in July. According to the charges, Robinson was having threatening communication on social media three months before the shooting with a man, identified only as W.J., who lived at the home on Ilion. Three men were on the side porch of the home when Robinson's vehicle pulled up and fired. One of them chased the vehicle as it fled and returned fire. Surveillance showed that Ottoson-Smith was struck by gunfire prior to the retaliatory shots. Investigators said Robinson's vehicle "vanished" after the shooting. He made three searches on the internet using his phone related to changing the paint on his car, "then quit using his cell phone forever." Robinson was dating W.J.'s sister but they had a bad breakup days before the shooting when she accused him of cheating and lying. A month after the shooting, Robinson got into a fight with a different girlfriend who called him a "child killer" eight times and said "I hope you die for killin that lil girl." "Idgaf," Robinson responded, which is an acronym for not caring. Robinson's attorney Tyler Bliss did not immediately respond to requests for comment. According to the plea deal, Robinson pleaded guilty to second-degree murder in exchange for dropping three other charges of first-degree murder. Because there were two other children with Trinity on the trampoline, prosecutors were seeking an aggravated sentence. 