VANCOUVER — Marcus Johansson will make his season debut with the Wild on Thursday (9 p.m., BSN) against the Canucks in place of Marcus Foligno. Johansson will take Foligno's spot alongside Joel Eriksson Ek and Matt Boldy. Foligno is "banged up," coach Dean Evason said and is considered day-to-day. "It's just maintenance more than anything," Evason said of Foligno. "Could he push through it? Yeah, he probably would. Do we want him to? No, we want to get him healthy." Johansson suits up two days after the Wild acquired him from Washington for a 2024 third-round draft pick. He also played for the Wild in 2021, chipping in six goals and eight assists in 36 games. "It was a frustrating year," Johansson said. "Just a lot of injuries. Even before that, I had a lot of injuries. I didn't feel like I brought my best. It was frustrating, so I'm glad to get another crack at it." This season with the Capitals, Johansson posted 13 goals and 15 assists. "It makes everything a lot easier coming here knowing most of the guys and also the system," Johansson said. "Hopefully that transition won't be too hard. It's a great group of guys. It's a lot of fun." The rest of the Wild's lines are staying the same; so are the defensive pairings. Marc-Andre Fleury will start in net. As for Jonas Brodin, the defenseman did not make the trip. He's on injured reserve while resting a nagging lower-body injury. "We expect him to probably start skating after this road trip," Evason said. Kirill Kaprizov-Ryan Hartman-Mats Zuccarello Marcus Johansson-Joel Eriksson Ek-Matt Boldy Jordan Greenway-Frederick Gaudreau-Brandon Duhaime Mason Shaw-Connor Dewar-Ryan Reaves Jake Middleton-Jared Spurgeon Alex Goligoski-Matt Dumba Jon Merrill-Calen Addison Marc-Andre Fleury 1.90: Goals-against average for the Wild since Feb. 11, which is tops in the NHL. 6-0-1: Point streak for the Wild, a season high. 14-3-2: Performance by Fleury in 19 career starts against Vancouver. 19-8-1: Record for the Wild in their last 28 matchups vs. the Canucks. 26: Consecutive penalty kills by the Wild across 13 games. Vancouver is coming off a 5-4 overtime victory over Dallas on Monday. That was the Canucks' second overtime win in their last three games. Since Rick Tocchet took over for Bruce Boudreau behind the bench, the Canucks are 6-6-2. Center Elias Pettersson has 24 points in his last 16 games. Defenseman Quinn Hughes has 12 in his past 10.