For the second day in a row Friday, St. Paul's Humboldt High School went into lockdown under threat of a potential firearm on school grounds. St. Paul police spokesman Mike Ernster said officers went to the school at 9:47 a.m. after a reported fight between three male students and staff. Two staff members at the school at 30 Baker St. E. reportedly suffered minor injuries in the incident. Staff told police that the students were sent to the office because one reportedly may have brought a BB gun to school. Instead, a search of the student revealed a jar containing what was suspected to be marijuana. The two other students, who were waiting outside the office, became "agitated and argumentative" with staff and tried to free the third student from the office. In the ensuing confrontation with the two, a staff member used pepper spray. Two of the students fled the school on foot and have not been found. Both staff members were treated by paramedics at the scene and released. A staff member said they believed the two students fled because they had a weapon, but police said none was seen. The remaining student was cited for marijuana possession and disorderly conduct before being released to a parent. No other arrests have been made, and Ernster said the incident was being investigated. St. Paul Public Schools spokesman Ryan Stanzel said the lockdown was lifted after about an hour. He said all students are safe and no threats were made. In a letter to parents and community members, Principal Valerie Littles-Butler said there will be extra security at the school when students return Tuesday after Martin Luther King Day. "We are committed to keeping the Humboldt complex a safe place to learn. We are working with the [school district] Security and Emergency Management team to have extra security in place on Tuesday," Littles-Butler's letter read. "There are serious consequences for students who bring weapons to school. We will follow our discipline procedures as outlined in the Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook. " Humboldt went into lockdown Thursday after reports that a student had brought a weapon to school. Police were called, but no weapon was found. 