Turns out, the injury suffered by Vikings right tackle Brian O'Neill during Sunday's loss at Green Bay was worse than first thought. In addition to a calf injury, he also suffered a partly torn Achilles tendon that will require surgery to repair and end the veteran's season, coach Kevin O'Connell said Wednesday. O'Neill was placed on injured reserve on Tuesday, meaning he would miss at least four games but could return if the Vikings advance to the Super Bowl. Instead, he'll have surgery to fix the tendon and will miss any postseason contests. O'Connell is hopeful O'Neill will be ready for the 2023 season. "My understanding is he should be able to make the full recovery and be ready and hopefully available to start next season,'' O'Connell said. A team captain and 2021 Pro Bowl honoree, O'Neill has been a mainstay for the Vikings over the past five seasons, missing only two games (as a healthy scratch). He was injured while chasing Packers safety Darnell Savage during an interception return for a touchdown in the Vikings' 41-17 loss at Green Bay. "He was such a pillar of consistency for us all year,'' O'Connell said. "… Even during some of the moments where we weren't at our best, Brian was still so consistent for us in his role. It's going to be a hard thing to replace, especially that consistency, but what I've challenged some of our guys is understanding the standard that Brian set at that position.'' Oli Udoh, a fourth-year pro who has made 16 starts in his Vikings career, will replace O'Neill in Sunday's regular-season finale at Chicago. O'Neill isn't the only Vikings offensive lineman who'll require surgery after suffering an injury against the Packers. Center Austin Schlottmann, starting in place of injured starter Garrett Bradbury, suffered a broken fibula and will have surgery. He also is on injured reserve and will miss the rest of the season and playoffs. O'Connell had better news on Bradbury, who has missed the past four games because of lower back tightness that was aggravated in a Dec. 17 car crash, and tackle Blake Brandel, who suffered a sprained knee Dec. 11 against Detroit. Bradbury did not practice Wednesday but is getting closer to a return, while Brandel is in line to return for the playoff opener. "It's to be determined what that looks like for this week,'' O'Connell said of Bradbury. "It's still early on in the week here, but the hope is that we do get Garrett Bradbury back on our offensive line soon.'' There is a "very good chance" Brandel will be back for the playoffs, O'Connell said. "He's done an excellent job in his recovery.'' Chris Reed took over at center after Schlottmann was injured against the Packers. This week the Vikings signed center Greg Mancz to the active roster and tackle Bobby Evans to the practice squad. The Vikings' offensive line issues were apparent in the loss to the Packers. Minnesota rushed for 102 yards on 20 carries, with top back Dalvin Cook gaining only 27 yards on nine carries. The Vikings had trouble moving Green Bay's front, and given a first-and-goal situation after a blocked punt, they settled for a field goal after a Kirk Cousins incompletion and Cook runs for no gain and minus-1 yard. Pass protection was a problem, too. Cousins was sacked twice and hit eight times while throwing three interceptions and losing a fumble. Cousins said Reed will benefit from a full week of practice this week after being thrown into a tough situation at Lambeau Field, especially with the offense's cadence. "Today, Chris handled it really, really well,'' Cousins said after practice. "And I didn't expect anything different just because of how long he's been around this game and the pro that he is. It was a big ask to say, 'Just jump in and handle everything like you've been doing it for weeks.' '' 