Gophers men's basketball attendance numbers were down this season, but the early atmosphere Saturday against Nebraska resembled past seasons when they had a home-court advantage and players fed off the crowd's energy. The best home crowd of the season so far and over 40 former players honored on Alumni Day saw the Gophers tie the score at the end of regulation on a clutch three-pointer from Taurus Samuels. Everything seemed to point toward the Gophers getting their first Big Ten victory, but it wouldn't be their day, falling 81-79 in overtime to the Cornhuskers in front of an announced 10,948 fans at Williams Arena. "I want to thank our fans because the energy and the environment they create, it definitely helps our guys," Gophers coach Ben Johnson said. "It's hard to win in this league." The Gophers (6-8, 0-4 Big Ten) were led by Dawson Garcia and Jamison Battle, who combined for 39 points. Garcia finished with 19 points and a career-high 15 rebounds, but the momentum shifted when he fouled out in overtime. Garcia's two free throws cut Nebraska's lead to 72-71 in overtime, but the 6-11 former Prior Lake star was called for his fifth foul on the ensuing possession trying to draw a charge on Derrick Walker Jr., who hit two free throws. The Cornhuskers (9-7, 2-3) picked up their first victory at the Barn since 2018 behind Walker's 22 points, eight rebounds and seven assists. Nebraska finished with 48 points in the paint and won the rebounding battle 38-28, a letdown from Minnesota outrebounding Wisconsin by 16 in Tuesday's 63-60 loss at No. 14 Wisconsin. The Gophers, who had 20 turnovers in Madison, improved taking care of the ball with only seven turnovers Saturday. But the Huskers shot 51% from the field and outscored them 48-40 in the second half and overtime. "We talked about in the locker room that we're right there putting ourselves in position to win," said Samuels, who had a season-high eight points. "When we don't get the outcome, it does sting sometimes, but we feel like we're preparing well." Samuels' three-pointer with 4.8 seconds left in regulation gave the Gophers new life in overtime. Battle's shot from beyond the arc tied it 74-74 with 1:17 remaining in the extra period, but it wasn't enough to extend the game this time. Following a putback from Juwan Gary to take the lead, Nebraska's Sam Griesel added two free throws to make it a four-point margin. With a chance at a quick response, the Gophers botched the next play after an airball from well beyond the three-point line, falling to 0-4 in Big Ten play for the first time since 2015-16. "Everyone in the locker room says we have to focus on the details," said Battle, who had a team-high 20 points. "As a leader, I've got to step up and do those things to show the young guys this is how you do it." Garcia had a game-high 15 points in the first half Saturday to help the Gophers lead 39-33 at halftime. But Nebraska's second-half surge began when he picked up back-to-back fouls, including his third only three minutes into the half. C.J. Wilcher's reverse layup capped a 12-0 run and gave the Huskers a 52-47 lead to quiet the crowd. Johnson then looked to his bench for a spark. Jaden Henley ended his team's scoring drought. The California native had two baskets but continued to attack and connect with fellow freshman Joshua Ola-Joseph on two plays for the lead. Ola-Joseph had 10 of his 12 points in the second half. The freshmen contribution and Samuels' big shot in the second half provided a lift. Garcia and Battle had their impact on full display at times. Those were areas to build on, but Johnson desperately wants the effort of his team to get better to be rewarded soon. "I want them to taste that success," Johnson said. "The hardest thing is to keep showing up when you don't always get the results."