Receiver Justin Jefferson checked one more box on his already impressive résumé with his initial first-team All-Pro selection — unanimously as one of two players to get all 50 votes from a national panel of media members. Jefferson was one of two Vikings players, along with long snapper and fellow first-time honoree Andrew DePaola, to be included in the Associated Press' All-Pro team announced Friday. The 35-year-old DePaola, who also made his first Pro Bowl this season, received 26 first-place votes. Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce was the only other unanimous first-team All-Pro selection. Raiders kicker Daniel Carlson — the 2018 Vikings draft pick cut after two games — was also named a first-team All-Pro pick. Jefferson, who led the league with a career-high and franchise-record 128 catches and 1,809 receiving yards, made the All-Pro second team in his first two years. He missed last year's top team by one vote to 49ers star Deebo Samuel. This year, Jefferson joins the Dolphins' Tyreek Hill and Raiders' Davante Adams on the first team. "It'll mean a lot just to be recognized as one of the top in the league," Jefferson said earlier this week. "The first two years I got second team, so it'll definitely mean something to me to get first this time." Vikings safety Harrison Smith and special teamer Josh Metellus received one first-team vote apiece. They each also had second-team votes. Other Vikings receiving second-team votes: kick returner Kene Nwangwu (27), cornerback Patrick Peterson (10), tight end T.J. Hockenson (seven), left tackle Christian Darrisaw (three), right tackle Brian O'Neill (one) and safety Camryn Bynum (one). Edge rusher Za'Darius Smith had a productive season, ranking fourth in quarterback pressures along with 10 sacks, but did not receive a single vote.  First-team offense WR (3): Justin Jefferson; Tyreek Hill; A.J. BrownTE (1): Travis Kelce LT (1): Andrew Thomas LG (1): Joe Thuney C (1): Jason Kelce RG (1): Zack MartinRT (1): Lane JohnsonQB (1): Patrick MahomesRB (1): Josh Jacobs First-team defense Edge rusher (2): Micah Parsons; Nick BosaInterior lineman (2): Chris Jones; Dexter LawrenceLB (3): Matt Milano; Fred Warner; Roquan Smith CB (2): Tariq Woolen; Sauce Gardner S (2): Minkah Fitzpatrick; Talanoa Hufanga First-team special teams Place-kicker (1): Jason MyersPunter (1): Tommy Townsend Kick returner (1): Keisean Nixon Punt returner (1): Marcus JonesSpecial teamer (1): George OdumLong snapper (1): Andrew DePaola Second-team offense WR (3): Davante Adams; Stefon Diggs; Jaylen Waddle TE (1): George Kittle LT (1): Trent Williams LG (1): Joel BitonioC (1): Frank Ragnow RG (1): Mike OnwenuRT (1): Tristan WirfsQB (1): Joe BurrowRB (1): Austin Ekeler Second-team defense Edge rusher (2): Myles Garrett; Haason Reddick Interior lineman (2): Quinnen Williams; Daron Payne LB (3): C.J. Mosley; Bobby Wagner; Lavonte David CB (2): Patrick Peterson; Jaire Alexander S (2): Ryan Neal; Tyrann Mathieu Second-team special teams Place Kicker (1): Daniel Carlson Punter (1): Logan CookeKick returner (1): Kene Nwangwu Punt returner (1): Kalif RaymondSpecial teamer (1): Jeremy ReavesLong snapper (1): Zach Wood 