The journey to racial justice is long, but every member of society can help even in simple ways, Valerie Jarrett told hundreds of people gathered for the annual Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. breakfast in Minneapolis on Monday. Jarrett, CEO of the Obama Foundation, gave the keynote message at the largest of many events celebrating the civil rights leader around the Twin Cities and the state. She recalled the civil rights leader's words, saying that the "arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice." Many see what's happening in the world and their hometown "and we are left with a feeling of hopelessness … how do we really make progress?" Jarrett said. "Remember that arc is long, but it will bend far stronger and faster with each of you." Organized by General Mills and United Negro College Fund, the event returned to an in-person gathering for the first time since the pandemic and the killing of George Floyd by Minneapolis police in May 2020. The program's theme urged people to "keep moving forward." The crowd at the breakfast included Gov. Tim Walz, Lt. Gov. Peggy Flanagan, U.S. Rep. Ilhan Omar and state Attorney General Keith Ellison. Other events unfolding throughout the day included a celebration in Powderhorn Park, a Black youth talent showcase in north Minneapolis, a concert at the University of Minnesota and a reparations lunch in St. Paul. "Doesn't it feel like a family reunion?" said Laverne McCartney Knighton, area development director of UNCF, told the crowd gathered for breakfast. "The energy and the smiles, it really feels good and y'all are looking good too." "The civil rights movement was not a fast process in gaining equal rights for all — in fact it was and still is a long and arduous journey, but Dr. King pushed to keep moving forward," she said. "This method is for everyone, no matter how hard it may be: keep moving in 2023." McCartney Knighton urged attendees to donate to UNCF for scholarships allowing students to attend historically Black colleges and universities. Through General Mills' partnership with the fund, it has provided nearly $7 million to support more than 400 programs and 37 academic institutions, according to the company. UNCF President and CEO Michael Lomax recalled growing up as his journalist mother reported stories on the Montgomery bus boycott from 1955 to 1956 and met King. Later, she had King over to their home; Lomax recalled how "gracious and funny" the leader was during their visit. Then his family moved from Los Angeles to Tuskegee, near Montgomery, as his mother continued writing about the civil rights movement for a range of publications. Lomax recalled recently visiting the mayor of Montgomery – one of many Black leaders at City Hall – with his grandson and reflected on the work that King and the activists had put in all those decades before. Lomax noted the questions that followed the global uprising following the police killing of Floyd. "People often ask, 'Was 2020 a moment or the beginning of a movement?'" said Lomax. "And I answer, 'Is there still injustice in the world? Is there still inequality?' Dr. King knew that the boycott was a powerful moment and it had to evolve into a powerful movement. For the remainder of his life, just a little over a decade, he focused and he never let up" even as he was vilified. He added: "Yet he stayed the course. He kept looking forward … 2020 was our Montgomery moment. It is up to all of us to make it our transformational movement." Jarrett, formerly senior adviser to Obama, reflected on her time getting to know the Obamas in Chicago and recounted lessons from her time in politics. "There is a mighty stranglehold on the status quo," Jarrett said. "One of the many lessons I learned in Washington is the only way that things happen is that we the people demanded that it happen and we can do that nonviolently, we can do that with our voices .. but it takes time." She told the audience that they don't have to be the president of the United States to make a difference in somebody's life – it can be as simple as knocking on a neighbor's door and asking if they're OK. She urged the audience to appreciate how there was a monument to King on the National Mall and a national holiday in his honor, even though he was vilified during his fight for civil rights. "This holiday is an opportunity to celebrate and to motivate us to want to move forward," Jarrett said.         