Activists plan to rally outside Brooklyn Center City Hall Monday evening to denounce what they are calling a hyper-militarized video produced by the police department to recruit officers to the force. The video, which appeared last month on the city's website and social media platforms, was taken down following the criticism. A message on the city's website says the video is unavailable, but it continues to circulate on social media. The rally is planned as the city will swear in new Mayor April Graves and two new City Council members, but the events are not related. Graves in November beat incumbent Mayor Mike Elliott, who rose to national prominence following the police shooting of Daunte Wright, an unarmed Black man. The city has tried to rebuild trust between police and the community following police shootings of two Black men, including Wright, between 2019 and 2021. But Michelle Gross with Citizens United Against Police Brutality said the video was troubling. The purpose of a recruiting video is to show off the culture of a workplace, she said, but this video depicted a militaristic environment and showed no female officers. "Who are you trying to recruit?" Gross asked. "That is the magic question." Police Chief Kellace McDaniel said in an interview Monday that he knew of the video before it was posted, and acknowledged it does not represent the full breadth of the Brooklyn Center community. "I understand what the video had done and the effect it had on some in the community. I understand this was a setback for some community members," he said. "Guaranteeing safety and security is the main thing we do at  the police department." Twin Cities Coalition for Justice 4 Jamar, Black Lives Matter Twin Cities and other groups are behind the planned rally. "The video is insensitive, triggering and loaded with police propaganda. We want answers and we demand accountability," the groups said. The video, set to soaring music, shows members of the police department preparing for duty. There is a roll call session followed by officers leaving the building heading for their squads. One is carrying a rifle. "Professionalism, accountability, compassion, trust: This is Brooklyn Center," the narrator says. "It is challenging. There will be hard days. Nobody said it would be easy to protect this community. Will you answer the call?" The video then shows officers in squad cars racing to a scene where they arrest a suspect and recover handguns. "Be the change," reads text laid over the video's ending. "Up to $10,000 sign-on bonus, up to $101,000 salary."   The video surfaced at a time when the city is down police officers, after former officer Kimberly Potter shot Wright during a traffic stop in April 2021. Potter was later found guilty of first- and second-degree manslaughter and sentenced to two years in prison. Brooklyn Center, a north metro suburb bordering Minneapolis, is authorized for 49 officers, according to Dec. 5 City Council minutes posted online. But the department currently employs only 39 officers, of which 31 can actively take calls. Others may be in training or on desk duty, the minutes read. In May, Brooklyn Center hired McDaniel, who was a lieutenant with the Hennepin County Sheriff's Office, as its police chief. Former Chief Tim Gannon resigned after Wright's killing. Gannon has filed a lawsuit against the city, claiming he was forced out for not immediately firing Potter. Over the nearly two years since the Wright shooting and that of another Black man, Kobe Dimock-Heisler, the city passed the Daunte Wright and Kobe Dimock-Heisler Community Safety and Violence Prevention Act in an effort to remake its police department. Some of those reforms propose using social workers and other trained professionals to respond to medical, mental health and social needs calls that don't require police. Last year, the city enacted a new citation policy allowing officers to ticket offenders for misdemeanors and gross misdemeanors and let them go rather than arrest them. The next step, McDaniel said, is to develop a video that better reflects the department's community service and community engagement.   