From highways to sidestreets, Twin Cities roads were snow- and ice-covered again Wednesday morning after more snow fell overnight — and more is on the way. Another 2 to 5 inches of snow was forecast for Wednesday, on top of the foot of snow that had piled up in some places in the metro area since the storm began on Tuesday. That meant a lot of work for transportation departments and property owners tasked with clearing roads, driveways and sidewalks. "With this event, we might not get caught up 'til Saturday," said Nick Fleischhacker, Blaine's deputy Public Works director. The city has 43 plows, pickup trucks and smaller equipment for sidewalks and parking lots, and "they are all out today," he said. Crews are working 12- to 14-hour shifts to clear 600 miles of roads, mainly in residential areas. "We will get to everybody," Fleischhacker said. St. Paul on Wednesday morning declared a snow emergency, and Minneapolis soon followed suit. Both cities said snow emergencies would go into effect at 9 p.m. Several suburbs also declared snow emergencies as side roads in many communities remained clogged, making it a challenge for drivers to get out of their neighborhoods. The Minnesota Department of Transportation dispatched a full complement of plows to clear highways and freeways, but as the snow kept falling "it was an uphill battle," said spokeswoman Anne Meyer. Crews laid down salt to help un-bury pavement by midmorning, but early commuters faced whiteknuckle conditions with snow covered roads that spawned scores of crashes and spinouts. "Spinouts and crashes litter Twin Cities roads. Highways across the state are covered in snow. Stay home if you can," the State Patrol said early Wednesday. "The fewer cars on the road, the better for first responders." By Wednesday morning, the State Patrol had responded to 226 crashes, 804 spinouts and 13 jackknifed semitrailer trucks statewide. One man died when he was struck by a passing motorist. Scott Joseph Hollencamp, of Maple Lake, was outside his vehicle that had gone into the ditch on Hwy. 24 in Clearwater Township when he was fatally struck about 7:20 p.m. Tuesday, the patrol said. More than 10 inches of snow had piled up in Minneapolis as of Wednesday morning, with 13.5 inches recorded in Apple Valley and Burnsville, 13.1 in Bloomington, 12.5 in Woodbury, 11 in Coon Rapids and Stillwater and 10 in Blaine in Edina, the Weather Service said. As of midnight, 39.3 inches had fallen so far this season at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport — 19.2 inches above normal, the Weather Service said.  The hefty snowfall and difficulty crews faced keeping roads open prompted Anoka Hennepin to call off school Wednesday. Other districts also called off in-person learning and closed or shifted instruction online Wednesday. Minneapolis and St. Paul schools announced an at-home learning day. A Winter Weather Advisory for 2 to 5 inches of snow remained in effect until 6 p.m. Wednesday for the southern half of Minnesota, covering cities such as Alexandria, St. Cloud, Willmar, Marshall, Mankato, Albert Lea and the Twin Cities. A Winter Storm Warning was in effect until 6 p.m. for an area stretching from Brainerd to Duluth and into northern Wisconsin, the National Weather Service said.  At 10:45 a.m., Metro Transit reported 30% of its buses were behind schedule by an average of 5 minutes. A handful of routes, including the new D Rapid Bus Line, were placed on snow detour. Light-rail trains were running on time, the agency said. The heavy, wet snow meant work for property owners with sidewalks and driveways to clear. Those who had to shovel were advised to stay hydrated and move only small amounts of snow at a time. "Take it slow when shoveling snow," the National Weather Service said. "Heavy wet snow can put a strain on the heart." Business was brisk Wednesday morning at North End Hardware on Penn Avenue in north Minneapolis, where shovels, salt and snow blowers running between $550 and $750 were hot-selling items. Several people also rented snow blowers. "Customers will be coming in all day," said John Guion, part owner and manager of the store. "It's good business." For others, it meant a day in the dark. More than 1,000 customers served by Dakota Electric Association were without electricity on Wednesday morning, the utility said. "Many outages caused by sagging branches and snow laden power lines," the utility said. In Minneapolis, the city suspended solid waste and recycling collection Wednesday due to hazardous driving conditions. Collections will resume Thursday, the city said in a news release. St. Paul's recycling vendor, Eureka Recycling, delayed collection Wednesday and for the rest of the week, said Public Works spokeswoman Lisa Hiebert. Garbage haulers Republic Services and Highland Sanitation said collection will be pushed back a day for the rest of the week. About 100 incoming and departing flights had been canceled and 180 delayed by 11 a.m. Wednesday at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport, according MSP spokesman Jeff Lea.  