More than 2.5 million Minnesota households would receive checks from the state and many seniors would pay lower taxes on their Social Security benefits under DFL Gov. Tim Walz's $65.2 billion budget. The governor on Tuesday proposed his full vision of state spending and taxes for the next two years, drawing on an estimated record-breaking surplus of $17.5 billion to boost cash for schools, housing and paid worker leave and give tax breaks to Minnesotans. Walz's plan amounts to a 26% jump from the current two-year budget, with more than half of the increase one-time spending. "As the economy brings pressures onto families we have the capacity to relieve some of those," Walz said. "Whether it's reducing the cost of child care, or whether it's putting checks and money back in people's pockets." Walz's budget is the starting point for negotiations with legislators. With Democrats in full control of state government, this year's budget battles are likely to feature nuanced disagreements rather than fundamental differences. House Democrats and Walz share many goals, said House Speaker Melissa Hortman, DFL-Brooklyn Park. "I look forward to our continued partnership as we craft our budget," she said in a statement. Senate Majority Leader Kari Dziedzic, DFL-Minneapolis, said in a statement that she's ready to work with Walz and Hortman on "lowering costs for families and ensuring strong schools, safe communities and a healthy climate." One looming clash is whether Minnesota should send checks to residents. Walz has been calling for the payments for a year, but DFL legislators have not embraced the idea. On Tuesday, Walz suggested single tax filers whose adjusted gross income is less than $75,000 should receive $1,000 through an advanced income tax credit, and couples earning less than $150,000 should get $2,000. Families could also receive $200 for each dependent, up to three kids. It is a slimmed-down version of his past proposal, where Minnesotans with a wider range of incomes would have qualified for the cash. "People can make good decisions for themselves and a portion of this surplus needs to get back in their hands," Walz said. He added that the checks would not be taxable. Lawmakers have also offered differing visions for Social Security tax cuts. Republicans have long pressed for eliminating the state's tax on the benefits, which the revenue department estimates would affect 473,000 Minnesota filers. But some Democrats worry about the resulting $1.3 billion loss of state income over the next two years, a figure that would increase in the following two-year budget. Under Walz's plan, around 350,000 households would see a reduction in their Social Security taxes. In addition to the one-time payments and Social Security tax reductions, Walz previously debuted plans for tax credits for families with children. Those credits would provide families thousands of dollars to help with child care costs. He estimated all the tax cuts in his plan total $8 billion. While seniors and families would see tax breaks, Minnesotans who see substantial capital gains would pay more under Walz's plan. Minnesotans who make $500,000 or more when they sell stocks, a home or other assets would pay a 1.5% surcharge and those getting more than $1 million in income would pay 4%. The move is estimated to generate $661 million over the next two years. "We think that just makes it fair," Walz said, adding that they would devote the dollars to workers. Other revenue-generating items in Walz's proposal include a payroll deduction to fund a paid leave program, higher vehicle tab fees and an increase in some DNR-related fees. Republican legislative leaders criticized Walz for proposing a large increase in government spending and not enacting broader tax cuts. "If we can't cut taxes now, when can we?" said House Minority Leader Lisa Demuth, R-Cold Spring, noting the state's record budget surplus. "Minnesotans are expecting to have that back." Senate Minority Leader Mark Johnson, R-East Grand Forks, said his caucus will not support "growing government by 25% on the backs of Minnesotans." Walz stressed that many of his proposals are one-time spending, including the roughly $4 billion he wants to distribute through checks. "We're not going to leave a deficit," he said. The governor's budget calls for recreational marijuana legalization and the creation of an Office of Cannabis Management to handle regulations for marijuana, hemp-derived products and medical cannabis. He recommended grants to help people start cannabis businesses, more funding to treat and prevent substance use disorders and expungement of non-violent marijuana offenses. "It is past time to safely legalize adult cannabis use," Lt. Gov. Peggy Flanagan said. "Prohibition doesn't work." Walz also proposed more local government and county program aid and cash to purchase up to 30 electric buses. Tuesday's budget presentation was the culmination of a weeklong rollout by the Walz administration. The governor has been highlighting aspects of the budget with events at a school, business and fire department. Some of the other big items in Walz's two-year spending plan include more money for education, housing and a new paid leave program. The governor wants to automatically increase future education funding to meet inflation and boost spending for special education, English language learning and free student meals. He proposed more than $950 million for housing needs, from downpayment assistance to homelessness prevention to preserving affordable housing. But while DFL legislators proposed $3.4 billion over the next two years for rent vouchers, Walz set aside just $10 million for rent assistance. His paid family and medical leave program is estimated to cost around $670 million to start up, and would be funded through a payroll deduction that his administration said would fall on both employers and employees. Walz also plans to use robust stadium reserve funds to pay off the debt on U.S. Bank Stadium in June, 22 years earlier than anticipated. Staff writer Rochelle Olson contributed to this report.      