A 46-year-old northwestern Minnesota man was sentenced to 40 years in prison Wednesday for killing his wife just a few months after his plea for an early release from federal prison was granted. Eric J. Reinbold, 46, of Oklee, was sentenced in Pennington County District Court after he was convicted last September of second-degree murder in the death of 34-year-old Lissette Reinbold. Prosecutors alleged Reinbold killed his wife in anger on July 9, 2021, after accusing her of cheating and because she was rejecting his demands for sex. With credit for time in jail since his arrest, Reinbold is expected to serve about 25 years and four  months in prison and the balance on supervised release. One of Lissette Reinbold's children found her body beside her vehicle. She had suffered stab wounds to her neck, torso and upper extremities, according to the criminal complaint. Officers arrested Reinbold nearly four weeks later in woods close to his parents' property north of Oklee. Lissette Reinbold's death occurred less than four months after her husband was granted an early "compassionate release" from federal prison in Oxford, Wis., where he was serving time for possessing pipe bombs. His five-year sentence initially had called for imprisonment until February 2022, but U.S. District Judge John Tunheim set Reinbold free in March 2021. The defense argued that Reinbold's health problems, including high cholesterol and borderline high blood pressure, made him especially vulnerable to contracting COVID-19 while incarcerated. The filing also pointed to his wife's persistent health challenges  as she cared for their children while staying employed. Prosecutors countered that Reinbold had already contracted the virus and recovered. They also noted that the prison was virus-free at the time of their filing. In his order granting the early release, Tunheim endorsed the defense's points and added, "Although Reinbold's crime was serious and could have resulted in serious injuries, there was no violence, and the court is of the belief that Reinbold will not do something as ill-advised and dangerous again. "As such, the court finds that reducing his sentence to time served will not minimize the severity of the offense, pose a risk to the community, or result in sentencing disparities." Reinbold's criminal history also includes a conviction in 2015 and a brief jail sentence for ramming his truck into a car that was occupied by his wife and two children. Lissette Reinbold, whose survivors include four children, "was a wonderful mother, daughter, sister and friend and will be dearly missed by all who knew her," her online obituary said. "Lissette was a very active, loving mother to her kids. She was a dance mom, soccer mom, basketball mom, theater mom, softball mom, and swimming mom." 