The University of Minnesota said Thursday it wants to once again own its Minneapolis teaching hospital and then build a new medical center on its campus — a bold vision with few financial details but one requiring taxpayer money. The push is meant to advance the U's leadership as a premier source of health care and medical research in Minnesota, officials said. It would also bolster the university's position as the state's only public medical school that's responsible for training about 70% of the state's physicians. It comes as Fairview Health Services — the Minneapolis-based nonprofit that partners with the U to run a prominent network of hospitals and clinics — is pursing a megamerger with South Dakota-based Sanford Health. The university has not supported the combination and its not clear exactly how, and at what cost, the U would reacquire the University of Minnesota Medical Center from Fairview. "We must own, govern and control the flagship health care facilities on our Twin Cities campus," said Joan Gabel, the University of Minnesota president, at a Thursday news conference. "We are calling on Attorney General Ellison, Governor Walz and the Minnesota Legislature to support shifting these facilities to the university." The U is calling its proposal MPact Health Care Innovation, a plan that sets the goal of building a new state-of-the-art medical center on the university's east bank campus. Significant planning work still is needed for the facility. Whenever construction would begin, it likely would take no less than five years to complete at a cost of no less than $1 billion, said Myron Frans, the U's senior vice president of finance and operations at the U. The university said it has been acquiring land for a new hospital over several years and designated an area for development at the eastern edge of its east bank campus. The medical center would be located just east and north of a large surgery center that the university operates in conjunction with Fairview. The idea of a new hospital has been developing quietly at the U as a part of long-term planning. Materials presented to the Board of Regents in October 2021 highlighted the need and planning for an updated medical center, according to a university spokesman. The U said the vision will require short- and long-term partnership with elected leaders. That's because an unspecified amount of funding will be required to shift ownership of the teaching hospital and then pay for an interim upgrade the facility. "Given the age of our flagship east and west bank hospitals and facilities, we have concerns about their ability to provide a platform for this world-class academic medical center," Gabel said. "So while the new hospital is under design and construction, we will seek legislative and community investment to bridge the present facilities to the future hospital." Before any of that can happen, however, the U must orchestrate a complicated transaction with Fairview, which has owned the University of Minnesota Medical Center since 1997. The deal to regain ownership would be a "reacquisition" of the teaching hospital, Frans said, involving a shift of charitable assets with input from the state attorney general. "Remember they were transferred, they weren't sold, as part of that 1997 [agreement]," Frans said in an interview. "So, this is unique — this is a different kind of model. Frankly, we're trying to sort out what that means, too. What did that transfer mean? And what does it mean to [now] transfer that or other assets. So, it's not a normal business model." Earlier this week, Sanford and Fairview executives raised the idea of the U repurchasing the teaching hospital. The health systems say they want university support for their merger, but would consider a sale of the teaching hospital at a fair market value. The U maintains, however, that such a valuation was not contemplated in the agreement with Fairview back in the 90s when it took control of the hospital. "With charitable assets held by a Minnesota nonprofit, the primary question is not ownership, but rather the charitable purpose to which they are devoted — in this case, the delivery of care by the University of Minnesota and [University of Minnesota Physicians] to patients," the U said in a statement earlier this week. "That purpose is reflected in the public funds that built the hospital and the academically-affiliated care provided since 1997." In a statement Thursday, Fairview suggested another wrinkle with any transaction: Would the health system want to retain some parts of the academic medical center? What's described as the University of Minnesota Medical Center actually encompasses four somewhat distinct operations. On the east bank, there's the main teaching hospital as well as a large outpatient clinic and surgery center that opened in 2016. On the west bank, there's Masonic Children's Hospital  as well as inpatient psychiatry services and an ER are located at the old Fairview Riverside hospital facility. The university said Thursday it wants ownership of all four pieces. But Sanford and Fairview said in a statement that the health systems have put "many options on the table, including the university repurchasing the east bank academic medical center." "Since 1997, Fairview has invested significantly in capital improvements in both east bank, west bank and at Masonic Children's Hospital," the health systems said. "We look forward to working together with the university to better understand the details of their vision and determining fair market value for the assets they may seek." The Sanford-Fairview merger would create a health system with more than 50 hospitals across Minnesota and the Dakotas. Fairview currently provides more than $80 million in financial support per year for academic medicine at the university, although that's just one part of their complex financial relationship. Every year, several hundred million dollars flow between Fairview, the U and the University of Minnesota Physicians through a variety of business arrangements. Among them, the physicians group the health system jointly market hospital and clinic services under the brand M Health Fairview. U medical school dean Dr. Jakub Tolar and other university officials have expressed concern over the Sanford-Fairview merger proposal, saying it has been more focused on business interests than how it might impact research, medical education and patient care at the U. Fairview provided a financial bailout of the U hospital in the 1990s, when the medical center was struggling financially. But today, running a teaching hospital is "a good business," Tolar said. "I mean, it's a noble thing to do as well," he said during the news conference. "And, in my opinion, it's life-affirming and it builds lives and livelihoods ... but it's also a very good business." Tolar pointed to other examples around the country where academic medical systems thrive with a closer connection between medical schools and their affiliated networks of hospitals and clinics. For now, the affiliation agreement between the U and Fairview continues through 2026. What happens after that is unknown, but university officials on Thursday suggested they might seek to affiliate with a number of health care providers in Minnesota, with Fairview being one of them.    