Friday was what the Timberwolves front office, fans and team had envisioned when Rudy Gobert came to town. He was a defensive presence in the paint, he rebounded a lot and there were lobs that resulted in dunks — many times over. Gobert had his best game statistically in a Wolves uniform in Friday's 128-115 victory over the Clippers with 25 points and 21 rebounds. That marked the ninth time in his career Gobert reached at least 20 in both categories in a game. Gobert has received his fair share of criticism since the Wolves traded half a decade's worth of first-round picks to bring him here over the summer. But never this season has he looked more dominant or in control of a game like he was against the Clippers, who were without Kawhi Leonard, Paul George and Gobert's friend and fellow Frenchman Nicolas Batum. "I don't think we've seen the best Rudy yet," he said. "I've been putting in a lot of work. My teammates are sticking with me. The coaching staff is sticking with me. And I know that it's going to pay off. It's a long season. My goal is to just keep raising my level every day and set the tone for these guys." He repeated that message multiple times — setting the tone. Usually Gobert does that on the defensive end, but he also did it on the offensive end Friday with some help from his teammates. Of his 11 made field goals, six were dunks that came off lob passes, two each from Kyle Anderson, D'Angelo Russell and Jaden McDaniels. "He's so tall you can't really miss him, for real," McDaniels said. The chemistry between Gobert and his teammates has looked like a failed high school lab experiment at several points this season. Their grades were much better Friday night at Target Center. "I thought guys did a really good job of having their head up and looking for him," coach Chris Finch said. "Whether it be on the roll, or on the drive and the lob. Ball movement is better right now, so everything has a little more space, and that space allows you to see what's going on a little bit. When we get slowed down and static, we have guys hanging on Rudy, and that makes it harder." Another maligned Wolves player, D'Angelo Russell, had one of his best games of late with 25 points on 7-for-12 shooting. Russell was 10-for-10 from the free-throw line. The night wasn't a perfect one for the Wolves as Anthony Edwards and Naz Reid each left the game because of injuries both have been playing through. Edwards left in the third quarter because of left hip soreness he first felt after a hard fall against Milwaukee on December 30. He expressed optimism he would be back at least in time for Wednesday's game against Detroit. That would mean he could miss Sunday's game at Houston. Reid left because of back spasms that cost him the previous two games. There was no immediate word on his status for Sunday. The Wolves led by 14 at halftime and built to as much as 25 without Edwards and Reid thanks to Gobert's commanding presence. Anderson pitched in with an effective 12 points, seven rebounds and six assists. McDaniels had another strong offensive game with 18 points. Norman Powell had 21 to lead the shorthanded Clippers, who were playing on a back to back after Denver blew them out Thursday. The Wolves committed 20 turnovers on offense but shot 57 percent. Gobert and Russell combined to shoot 18-for-27 (67%). The Wolves will gladly take that efficient from both moving forward. Gobert was asked after the game why fans haven't seen "the best Rudy" yet. "I don't really like to blame external stuff. It's on me to handle myself and to be on the court as the best Rudy I can be," Gobert said. "Everyone's got stuff going on in their lives. It's part of the NBA, it's part of life. But for me as a competitor, I want to be the best defensive player of all time, I want to be a force and I want to win championships." At one point, the crowd egged Gobert on to dribble up the floor and take the ball to the basket for a layup. He missed, the crowd let out its disappointment and Gobert smiled after the ball went out of bounds. "I was having fun," Gobert said. "But I'm going to think about it all night. I should have dunked it." A smiling Gobert isn't someone Wolves fans are used to seeing. All involved would like to see that more often.