The man who died in an apartment fire this week in Minneapolis was a longtime Native American storyteller and performance artist who took his work to both coasts over the years, a close friend and fellow performer said Friday. Kristopher "Kohl" Miner died early Thursday in the fire at his home in the 1500 block of S. Portland Avenue, said David Daniels, who has performed with the 61-year-old Miner over the years and is helping the family notify others in the local theater scene of Miner's death. "Kohl was a dynamic and energetic, always coming with ideas for shows and performances," Daniels said. Daniels said that Miner's heritage as a Native American "was his driving force. I learned a lot about his Ho-Chunk Nation through Kohl's stories at Heart of the Beast and Patrick's Cabaret." Sandy Spieler, who was artistic director at Heart of the Beast in Minneapolis for 45 years until 2019, recalled Miner's "humor and his profound sensitivity and total sweetness." Spieler said Miner "was just a brilliant performer in one-person shows at the theater and in several company performances." Among the highlights in her reminiscing of Miner was a Native-themed story about gender fluidity, and living as a "he/she two-spirit person that was just so beautiful." Miner is described as "a playwright, performer, poet, monologist, Spoken Word Artist, and Resource Development Specialist" in an online biography posted by Minneapolis' Intermedia Arts venue for the 2015 "Queertopia: A Cabaret Celebration of Queer Love." Listed among his credits are performances at various Twin Cities venues, including the Walker Art Center and the Guthrie Theatre. His career also took him to New York, Los Angeles and Seattle. Investigators are continuing to work toward determining how the fire began. An alarm sounding about 2:15 a.m. sent Fire Department personnel to the building, where they saw light smoke coming from the first floor, said Assistant Chief Melanie Rucker. Firefighters located Miner in the apartment entry unconscious and with burn injuries, Rucker said.  They also saw a bed in the apartment that had been on fire before it burned itself out, Rucker said.      