It wasn't much, but the .02 inch of freezing rain that fell early Wednesday added up to big problems for Twin Cities commuters as roads turned treacherous and transit service was curtailed until mid morning. Metro Transit started up its rapid bus lines at 8 a.m. and resumed full service about 9:45 a.m. after deeming conditions too dangerous to operate earlier in the day. It was the first time since 2019 that the agency stopped service due to weather, said spokesman Drew Kerr. Other transit agencies, including Plymouth MetroLink, Maple Grove Transit, SouthWest Transit and the Minnesota Valley Transit Authority also paused and then resumed service by mid morning. Light-rail and Northstar trains were not impacted and ran as normal, Metro Transit said. The freezing rain moved into the metro area just after midnight and over about 7 hours dropped just .05 inches of precipitation at the National Weather Service office in Chanhassen and .02 at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. Roads stayed icy even after the rain stopped. Minnesota Department of Transportation plows applied chemicals to break up a thin coat of glaze ice, but pavement remained slick. "The joys of the season," said MnDOT spokeswoman Anne Meyer. "Ice is some of the most challenging stuff we deal with. We can't plow ice, we can just put down materials." Temperatures in the upper 20s were allowing chemicals to work, Meyer said, but it will take time to get roads into good winter driving condition. In Shorewood, a jackknifed semi was blocking the westbound lanes of Hwy. 7 at the Hwy. 41 intersection Wednesday morning. The westbound lanes remained closed at 10:15 a.m., MnDOT said. From 9:30 p.m. Tuesday through 7:30 a.m. Wednesday the State Patrol responded to 120 crashes statewide. Troopers also reported that 116 vehicles had spun out and 19 semitrailer trucks jackknifed. In another crash at about 9:45 a.m., several vehicles wound up in the ditch on southbound Hwy. 52 near 80th Street in Inver Grove Heights. "Roads are still icy across the metro," the State Patrol said about that time. "Be careful if you have to head out." With the slick conditions and no public bus service, high school students in Minneapolis and St. Paul were without a way to class. The St. Paul School District said students who arrived late due to the road conditions would be excused. In Minneapolis, classes went on as scheduled. The district said "MPS buses are still scheduled to run, but may be late." Slick conditions and sidewalks that required pedestrians to use the penguin shuffle led several school districts to open late. Some like Bloomington, Burnsville-Eagan-Savage, Faribault, Hastings, Northfield and Prior Lake-Savage shifted to an e-learning day. Conditions were to gradually improve, the National Weather Service said. But the agency suggested delaying driving until after 10 a.m. or the afternoon. The forecast called for temperatures to reach about freezing by afternoon before dropping back into the 20s for highs on Thursday and Friday. An air quality alert remained in effect for the metro area through 6 p.m. Wednesday, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency said.