COLUMBUS, Ohio – The Gophers were 15-point underdogs Thursday to Ohio State and hadn't won in Columbus since 2020, but they hardly looked the part of the Big Ten's only winless team in conference play. Dawson Garcia scored 12 consecutive points for the Gophers in the first half, an early statement that Ben Johnson's team had more talent than its record showed. Garcia went on to score 28 points, and a clutch free throw from Ta'Lon Cooper led Minnesota to a 70-67 upset in front of a shocked crowd of 11,202 at Value City Arena.  "We're developing the early stages of something that I think has a chance to be really good," Johnson said after celebrating with his team in the locker room. "These guys have unbelievable resolve and belief. Nobody probably thought we could come in here and win it." The Gophers (7-8, 1-4) led 66-60 with under a minute remaining, but Brice Sensabaugh scored five consecutive points to tie the game 67-67 with 8.6 seconds left. The Big Ten's worst free-throw shooting team (59%) missed four in the final minute, but Cooper made the second of two free throws with 1.7 seconds remaining for a 68-67 edge. Before Cooper walked to the line for his second free throw, Gophers assistant Marcus Jenkins told him, "This is why you're here," said Cooper, who finished with 13 points and 10 rebounds. "It gave me the highest confidence to make that free throw," he said. "That was something you dream about as a kid." After a Buckeyes turnover, Garcia, who missed a couple late, hit two free throws for the final margin. The Gophers, who lost 81-79 in overtime last weekend vs. Nebraska at home, were in control most of the night with Garcia's dominance and one of their best defensive efforts. "That's what it's all about," Garcia said. "Coach says never blink and that was a great example of that tonight. There were times where we could've got tight down the stretch, but we stuck together. We all came in and said, 'Go to war.'" The Buckeyes (10-6, 2-3) lost their third straight game even with top big man Zed Key back from a shoulder injury. Ohio State shot just 38% from the field but took the lead 51-50 after a three-point play by Sensabaugh, who finished with 18 points and 10 rebounds, on a putback early in the second half. Owning the offensive boards (14-4) and getting second-chance points (18) was the best thing the Buckeyes had going. The Gophers fell apart after losing leads in previous games, but Pharrel Payne ignited a 10-0 run at the 12-minute mark. Another tough basket from Payne made it 64-53 with 5:14 to play before Ohio State's 14-3 run to tie the score. For two straight games entering Thursday, the Gophers put themselves in position to get their first conference victory, but they failed to convert down the stretch, including in a 63-60 loss at Wisconsin. Garcia was the best player on the floor Thursday, but the Gophers had four players in double figures and committed just nine turnovers (compared with 20 at Wisconsin). With both head coaches on microphones on the Fox broadcast at halftime, Johnson told Garcia and company to not be satisfied with a halftime lead. "Our challenge was to come in here and match that physicality from the start," Johnson said. "I thought the first four minutes from both halves was going to be really telling, if we were up for the challenge." 