Minnesota lost 5,200 jobs in December, ending a job growth streak that lasted more than a year. Meanwhile, the state unemployment rate ticked up two-tenths of a percentage point to 2.5%, according to data released Thursday by the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development (DEED). The jobless rate has been steadily rising over the last several months since hitting a record low for any state of 1.8% over the summer. But it still remains at a historically low level and is one of the lowest in the nation. The U.S. unemployment rate is 3.5%. A big factor in last month's job decline was government, which lost 6,100 jobs, all of it coming from local government. State officials were scratching their heads and trying to better understand possible reasons for it — if end-of-year grants had shifted or if there was an issue with the seasonal adjustment of the data. DEED Commissioner Steve Grove noted that he thought local government would have added jobs in December with all the snow the state got that month, likely leading to a flurry of hiring of snow plow drivers. At the same time, he noted that Minnesota's private sector added 900 jobs last month. "It was kind of a weird month with that job dip overall, but the private sector did grow," he said. "We haven't seen massive reports of layoffs. There were a few kind of near the end of November and early December that were on our radar. but there weren't a slew of them over the last month and a half." Still, Grove said "obviously as we begin the new year like every state we are monitoring economic conditions very closely." The loss in jobs and the uptick in unemployment comes as the Federal Reserve has been hiking interest rates to try to curb high inflation. As it does so, Fed officials have acknowledged that unemployment may rise and job growth will likely moderate. Wage growth in Minnesota slowed last month to 3.2% over the year, after jumping 5.7% in November. While Minnesota had been surpassing the U.S. with the rate of pay increases in recent months, that changed in December when average hourly earnings nationwide rose at a higher 4.6%. That also means that wage growth in Minnesota is now falling further behind inflation even as the latter has also been slowing. The consumer price index increased by 6.5% in December, after rising 7.1% in November. On the good news front, the jobs report showed more improvement in narrowing racial disparities in the state. Based on 12-month moving averages, the jobless rate for Black Minnesotans declined by four-tenths of a point to 3.9% in December, a considerable drop after soaring to 7.4% in June 2022 when it was triple the white unemployment rate. "It has gone done every month for the last six months," said Grove. "That is a streak we certainly want to see continue." The jobless rate for Latino Minnesotans inched down one-tenth of a percent to 3.8% while the it slightly increased for white Minnesotans to 2.3%. So racial gaps in unemployment have now decreased to being less than double. Up until last month, Minnesota had been adding jobs for 14 consecutive months. The U.S., however, is in the midst of an even longer streak that has not yet been broken of 24 months of job gains. Minnesota's job losses in December contrasted with the U.S., which added 223,000 jobs last month. And it was a reversal from November when the state added 6,500 jobs, a number that was revised downward by 300 jobs. The data showed a lot of bumpiness between different industries. In addition to fewer government jobs, the state also lost 6,200 jobs in professional and business services, 2,600 jobs in construction, and 1,100 jobs in manufacturing. That was partially offset by the addition of 4,300 jobs in leisure and hospitality, 4,000 jobs in education and health services, 2,400 jobs in trade, transportation and utilities, and 1,400 jobs in financial activities. In 2022, Minnesota outpaced the nation in job growth — 3.2% compared with 2.9%. But it still has only regained 90% of jobs lost in the first month of the pandemic while the U.S. has made a full recovery. One of Minnesota's biggest obstacles is its labor shortage. It still has about 90,000 fewer workers in its labor force than it did before the pandemic. After continuing to see more workers exit the labor force in recent months, the state finally saw a small uptick of about 3,400 who came off the sidelines in December. That wasn't enough though to change the state's labor force participation rate which remained steady last month at 67.9%. It's still much higher than the U.S. rate of 62.3%, but is down from the 70.8% it was at in February 2020. "This remains the central thing that is holding our economy back — that challenge of finding enough workers for those jobs," said Grove. "We're still are at one person searching for every three or four jobs that out there.."