Minneapolis police on Friday released the identity of the pedestrian killed in a hit-and-run crash before sunrise a day earlier. David P. Norris, 39, was struck by a car about 7:10 a.m. near Cedar Avenue and Lake Nokomis Parkway, according to a police report. He lived about 3 miles to the north of where he was hit, the report noted. His body ended up in a snowbank, and emergency medical responders declared him dead at the scene. Police spokesman Brian Feintech said Friday afternoon that he has no update to share about the location of the driver or the vehicle. Norris worked as a librarian for St. Catherine University in St. Paul, a school spokeswoman said. He received his master's in library and information science from the school before becoming a librarian there in 2019. "St. Catherine University is saddened by the news of David's tragic death," university President Becky Roloff said in a statement. "He was driven by a passion for equity in information access and connecting users with the resources they need. His commitment to confronting bias and his leadership in promoting inclusivity and diversity was deeply admired by the library community." Hannah Norris said she and her brother were raised in northeast Minneapolis and that he initially "studied music composition — he was a brilliant music composer and performer — but found his passion in cataloging at St Kate's." He also volunteered for the Quatrefoil Library on E. Lake Street in Minneapolis, "which is a community center ensuring free access to LGBTQ+ materials for everyone. He did a bunch of cataloging for them." Colleen Riley, a longtime friend, said, "I will remember David for his creativity and sincere empathy." Riley said the two of them played Dungeons & Dragons together for years, and she noticed how he "put a great deal of thought into thoroughly developing his characters [and] was someone who consistently put considerable thought into everything he did, from solo camping to music to library cataloging work to simply genuinely listening to his friends over beers after a long day." Police ask anyone with information about the crash to contact CrimeStoppers at 800-222-8477. Tips can also be submitted at CrimeStoppersMN.org. All tips are anonymous and could lead to a reward upon an arrest and conviction.