Twin Cities residents can expect a slew of storm-related closures Wednesday and Thursday, from schools and libraries to museums and movie theaters. Below is a list of closures as of Wednesday afternoon: Schools Courts Public Libraries Parks and Recreation Playhouses  Penumbra Theatre, which had scheduled its final preview of "Sugar in Our Wounds" for Wednesday, canceled it and will shift opening night from Thursday to Friday (if the Thursday performance happens, it will be a preview). The Guthrie Theater canceled both the Wednesday and Thursday performances of "Blues for an Alabama Sky." Chanhassen Dinner Theatres canceled Wednesday matinee and evening shows of "The Prom." In each case, ticket holders should check their emails for information on refunds or re-booking. Exposed Brick Theatre has canceled its Wednesday and Thursday "Code You" performances but the show, which was scheduled to close Saturday at Dreamland Arts in St. Paul, has added a matinee Sunday at 2 p.m. Children's Theatre Company, which has "Corduroy" and "Locomotion" on its stages, is planning to go forward with both. Theater Latté Da has canceled the Wednesday evening "Hello, Dolly!" but plans to continue the run on Thursday. Ticketholders have been emailed instructions for how to make exchanges. Concerts First Avenue postponed a Wednesday show by New Zealand garage pop group The Beths until March 20. Ticket holders have until March 14 to seek refunds if they cannot make the new date. Museums Walker Art Center has postponed a Thursday evening talk with artists and curators to a to-be-determined date. Movie theaters Minneapolis' Trylon Cinema, which had planned two evening showings of "We are the Palestinian People" Wednesday, canceled the late show but will proceed with the early, 7 p.m., one. Woodbury 10 Theatre owners announced the multiplex will be closed Wednesday, with plans to reopen Thursday. If you're hoping to see any movie Wednesday evening, check the website first — some theaters have stopped selling tickets for those screenings. Restaurants If dining out sounds like a good idea, it's best to check the social media accounts of your favorite eatery first. Several restaurants have closed or reduced hours over the next couple of days, and it's easier to inform diners via a quick Facebook or Instagram post rather than updating the website. And you might get a little chuckle in the process: The Instagram reel from chef Adam Vickerman's Tosca in Minneapolis shows how it's done. Church services Several area churches called off services on the first day of Lent, including Elim Lutheran Church in Robbinsdale, evening services at St. Joan of Arc in south Minneapolis and North Heights Church in Arden Hills. Sanctuary Covenant Church in north Minneapolis will move its 6 p.m. Wednesday services to Youtube and Facebook instead. Minneapolis' Basilica of Saint Mary plans to hold three masses Wednesday but canceled its its evening soup meal. For Catholics, Ash Wednesday isn't a Holy Day of Obligation, even though receiving ashes is important to many faithful. Because of the storm, Archbishop Bernard Hebda gave parishes permission to distribute ashes through Sunday, as long as the ashes were blessed on Ash Wednesday, said spokesman Tom Halden. Black History Month events Bloomington's Pioneers and Changemakers awards ceremony has been postponed until March 10. The Bloomington Black Employee Network sponsors the recognition and networking event as part of its work to foster inclusion and opportunities in the city. University of Minnesota student Maya Marchel Hoff and staff writer Josie Albertson-Grove contributed to this report.  