DULUTH — A road construction project slated for Duluth's gateway to the North Shore will cause two years of disruptions and uproot residents of five properties. The need to resurface a 3½-mile residential artery along London Road and replace traffic lights led the Minnesota Department of Transportation (MnDOT) to propose a slew of other changes that would address speed and safety and improve access, after studies and community feedback indicated problems. But some proposed changes have divided neighborhood residents. Landscaped roundabouts are slated for the 26th, 40th and 60th avenue intersections along London Road; the first where Interstate 35 spits drivers into the home-lined neighborhood. The 60th Avenue intersection sits at the end of that stretch. To make way for the roundabouts, four houses at the 40th Avenue intersection and one at the 60th would be demolished. Travis and Elizabeth Johnson own the home at the 60th Avenue intersection, across from a popular Lake Superior rock beach. Unwilling to move, they've been living in limbo since they were approached by MnDOT last summer, unable to make improvements while the project is decided. "Our life is on hold," Elizabeth Johnson said. "We just love our house and location and can't imagine a better place." A group of residents started a petition opposing the 60th Avenue roundabout, which would carve into about 5% of a city-owned park. They propose alternative improvements such as flashing beacons and radar speed signs, which they say would make for safer crossing. Traffic, which includes freight trucks, commuters and endless tourists, isn't a big enough problem year-round to solve with a roundabout, the group contends. "It's a beautiful neighborhood with a beautiful park; and this is a very aggressive traffic management strategy that isn't necessary, that is forever going to change this neighborhood for the worse," said Rachel Lundeen, who lives near the 60th Avenue intersection. But some residents see roundabouts as the obvious solution to what they deem a dangerous situation. Tom Cotruvo lives near the 40th Avenue intersection, and said excessive speed is a regular problem that keeps many elderly residents and those with young children from attempting to cross the street on foot. "You get these platoons of cars all speeding," he said. "It's a terrible impact on the neighborhood." The road links the 55 mph Interstate 35 to the 65 mph expressway to Two Harbors, and has posted speeds that begin at 40 mph on either end before moving to 30, forcing traffic from either direction to slow down. MnDOT studies show the typical speed is 37 mph, but 15% of vehicles drive more than 40 mph. On average, 12,000 vehicles use the route daily, although that's higher in the warmer months and lower in the winter. Why does the Interstate stop at 26th, creating this issue? In 1958, a city highway committee proposed a freeway from 10th Avenue East to 27th Avenue East that would then follow the Duluth, Missabe and Iron Range Railway corridor to 68th Avenue East, according to MnDOT. Options were discussed for two decades, until Duluth leaders learned they could use federal Interstate 35 money for other projects. Millions were poured into downtown streets and skywalks, the rebuild of other city roads and the Duluth Transit Authority, keeping the Duluth route to the North Shore residential. Roundabouts, which slow traffic to about 20 mph, are the safest way to address London Road congestion and get pedestrians across, said Tom Lamb, the MnDOT project engineer. Traffic lights tend to create a backlog of traffic on neighborhood streets, while roundabouts space it out, he said, and flashing speed signs don't actually force vehicles to slow down the way roundabouts do. The agency received about 500 complaints on the 60th Avenue intersection, ranging from difficulty with left turns and sight lines to pedestrian crossing issues. Proposed roundabout designs have pedestrians crossing a single lane of traffic before reaching an island, then crossing again. "It's not intuitive that it's easier and safer to cross, but it's a known fact," Lamb said. MnDOT will offer to buy the five homes needed to make room for the project, but could use eminent domain for the public project if necessary. MnDOT spokeswoman Pippi Mayfield said the agency often ends up paying more than market value and helps the owners find a comparable place, paying moving costs. The course of the $17 million project will likely be set in a month, Mayfield said, and would begin in 2025.