 White Bear Lake police officer Ryan Sheak was struck twice when met by gunfire while trying to arrest Daniel Loren Holmgren last week at his apartment, the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA) said Wednesday. In an update clarifying details about the shooting, the BCA said Holmgren fired after opening his bedroom door to Sheak and two other officers Jan. 24 in White Bear Lake. The veteran officer continues to recover from injuries to his stomach, leg and pelvis, and remained hospitalized Wednesday in stable condition, White Bear Lake police Capt. Phil Henry said. Holmgren, 33,  was arrested and charged with attempted first-degree murder of a peace officer and four counts of first-degree assault on a peace officer. According to the BCA's update: Four White Bear Lake police officers went to the Lakewood Hills Apartments in the 3100 block of Karth Road to arrest Holmgren, who was wanted on felony domestic violence charges and had failed to appear in court.  The suspect had previously threatened to shoot police officers. The officers entered the apartment with a family member's permission, but  Holmgren remained in a bedroom with the door shut. While one officer stayed near the apartment's front door, Sheak, Sgt. Eric Gadbois and the fourth officer went to the bedroom and announced who they were and why they were there. Still, Holmgren refused to come out. Gadbois then fired pepper balls under the closed bedroom door. At that point, Holmgren opened the door and fired several rounds at the officers, striking Sheak. Gadbois and Sheak returned fire. While the officers left to get medical care for Sheak, a standoff began. Officers eventually used teargas before Holmgren surrendered. He was uninjured. BCA investigators recovered a semiautomatic pistol from the apartment. Video from body cameras worn by the officers during the confrontation will be released once the case is closed, the bureau said. Gadbois has worked in law enforcement for 12 years, and Sheak for eight.