In England, they might term it one thing. Whatever you call it, Minnesota United's 1-0 victory at FC Dallas on Saturday was a season opener that defied the circumstances. Loons star Emanuel Reynoso remained back home in Argentina, suspended until he reports to the club for work. Three other players traveled to Central and South America this past week to get U.S. work green cards and starting striker Luis Amarilla hadn't returned in time to rejoin his teammates. And on Thursday, they endured a snowstorm that canceled training. Still, substitute starting striker Mender Garcia's 48th-minute goal stood as the winner and the Loons held on to beat a FC Dallas team that hadn't lost a home opener since 2009. "It was a pretty disruptive week, one of the days we only had a dozen guys to train," Loons veteran defender Michael Boxall said. "It was a great professional performance despite all that. I'm proud of the guys tonight. It's going to be a fun flight home." Garcia started the game because Amarilla hadn't yet left Paraguay while both Kervin Arriaga and Joseph Rosales had been home to Honduras and met the team in Dallas by Friday. All of it defied the odds. "In England, we call it a coupon buster," Loons coach Adrian Heath said. In England, that "coupon buster" is a soccer betting form in which the bettor tries to predict the outcome of multitude games. But there always seems to be an upset nobody predicted. "It's where everybody expects you to get beat," Heath said. "There's always one and we were the one today. If anyone said they fancied Minnesota today…I take a lot of satisfaction [being the underdog]. You know what I'm like. I like to be in position to stick it up people sometimes." Saturday's victory did that well enough. Garcia's goal was his second goals in 12 games since he arrived in Minnesota last August. He could have one or two others on Saturday, too, including a long run free with the ball that had his teammates and coach pleading for a penalty just outside the 18-yard box that video review denied. Garcia pounded on the rebound of teammate Franco Fragapane's left-footed volley strike that FC Dallas goalkeeper Maarten Paes dove to block but couldn't contain. It stood as the winner on a night when former Liga MX defender Miguel Tapias made his MLS debut and versatile midfielder Hassani Dotson saw his first game action since he had season-ending ACL surgery last April. Through it all, the Loons left Dallas with three points unexpected by probably everybody but Heath, his coaches and his players. FC Dallas dominated possession and outdid the Loons 4-1 on shots on goal. But the only one they got was the only one they needed. "You know with the Reynoso situation and everything that's gone on, this press conference would have been a lot different if the result had gone against us," Heath told reporters on a video conference call afterward. "It speaks volumes of the attitude and fortitude of the group. We've had a difficult off-season. You can't deny that with what's gone on and then this week even. "It has been a difficult mental week to cope with and the players have been absolutely unbelievable and I'm so pleased for them." The Star Tribune did not send the writer of this article to the game. This was written using a broadcast, interviews and other material.