Interstate 94 between Fergus Falls and Moorhead reopened at noon Wednesday, after the freeway shut down Tuesday night as a blizzard sweeping through the state created dangerous travel conditions. Whiteout conditions fueled by winds gusting as high as 50 mph led to several motorists being stranded a few miles east of Moorhead Tuesday night, said Jesse Grabow with the Minnesota State Patrol. Tow trucks were still removing vehicles from the road and ditches as the road reopened, Grabow said. "Drive with caution as roads are still slippery," he said. "Please pass with care." Gov. Tim Walz deployed the National Guard to Clay County to assist motorists and residents impacted by heavy snow and strong winds persisting in the area. Portions of Hwys. 2, 9 and 75 near Crookston, along with Hwys. 200 and 220 also were closed Tuesday night, but have since reopened, MnDOT said. At the height of the storm, MnDOT also advised motorists to stay off the roads across 12 southwestern Minnesota counties where snow and blowing snow are creating near zero visibility. The advisories were lifted Wednesday morning. A blizzard warning expired at 10 a.m. for an area stretching from Grand Forks, N.D., to south of Morris, Minn., the National Weather Service said. Some power outages remained in Big Stone County in far western Minnesota, the county sheriff's office said. Meanwhile, in the Twin Cities, temperatures above freezing had roads primarily wet during the morning commute,  but temperatures are expected to rapidly tumble below the 32-degree mark during day. Water left standing on highways, bridge decks, ramps and sidewalks from Tuesday's soaking rain could freeze and travel could become "tricky," the National Weather Service said. The metro area set a daily record for Feb. 14 by picking up .68 inches of rain, the Weather Service said. Lingering rain in the metro area will end and temperatures will fall into the 20s by midafternoon, the Weather Service said. Winds gusting as high as 40 mph could lead to slick spots on the roads, the agency added. Behind the cold front, high temperatures Thursday and Friday will be in the upper teens and low 20s, but will moderate into the 30s by Saturday, the Weather Service said.   