A 16-year-old boy was charged Tuesday with murder on allegations that he stabbed a fellow student last week in St. Paul Harding High School following a hallway fight during a break between classes. Nosakhere K. Holmes was charged in Ramsey County District Court with second-degree unintentional murder in connection with the killing shortly before noon Friday of 15-year-old Devin Denelle Edward Scott, who was attending Harding on Friday, the 10th-grader's first day at the school after transferring from St. Paul Humboldt High School. Holmes was charged by petition in juvenile court. The County Attorney's Office indicated its intention to have the teenager's case moved to adult court, where a conviction would likely bring a longer sentence. Holmes was arrested moments after the stabbing at the school in the Dayton's Bluff neighborhood, and a bloodied folding knife with a 4-inch blade was confiscated from a pants pocket while he was detained in the school office, the charging document read. Scott was stabbed twice after school personnel broke up the fight and while Scott was walking backward away from Holmes, according to the court filing. One of the security staffers who subdued Holmes quoted the teenager as saying just before the apprehension that "they jumped me, they jumped me," the petition read. A court appearance for Holmes is scheduled for 3 p.m. Tuesday. Court records do not yet list an attorney for him. The charge against Holmes is based on school surveillance video and accounts given to police from an assistant principal who intervened during the fight and a staff member. However, the filing fails to offer a possible motive for the killing. "Too often, our young people resort to force and violence to resolve conflict, resulting in tragic loss for everyone involved," County Attorney John Choi said in a statement he released along with the petition. "We need to redouble our efforts to help youth, their families, and our community to address violence involving our young people." The charge comes one day after St. Paul Public Schools announced short-term security changes for some of the district's largest high schools in partnership with police. They include: The officers will be stationed in front of the schools in case their staff need assistance, according to Police Sgt. Mike Ernster. All are former school resource officers, he said. According to the juvenile petition: Scott and another student were walking in a hallway, where they encountered Holmes, who began "having words" with Scott. Holmes squared up with Scott as they continued talking to each other. Holmes and Scott started fighting, and a student who with Scott tackled Holmes to the floor. Scott and the other student were punching Holmes as he tried to get to his feet. The staffer intervened and grabbed Scott as an assistant principal pulled away the other student punching Holmes. Holmes walked toward Scott, who was retreating, and swung the knife at least twice. The knife hit Scott in the heart with a slicing motion, and then the waist with a straight jab. Two security staff members put Holmes to the floor but not without a brief struggle as they handcuffed him. The staff member escorted Scott to the nurse's office. Scott said he was dizzy and collapsed. Lifesaving measures were started by school staff before Fire Department medics took over and transported him to Regions Hospital, where he died soon afterward. Staff writer Louis Krauss contributed to this report. 