From clearing driveways to clearing freeways, Minnesotans on Thursday began digging out from a storm that socked much of the state for two days and led schools to close,  businesses and highways to shut down and urban dwellers scrambling to find places to park their cars. As conditions improved, the Minnesota Department of Transportation lifted no travel advisories across south central Minnesota and reopened Interstate 90 from Worthington to the South Dakota Border just after noon Thursday. Other highways in southwestern Minnesota were to reopen at 2 p.m., the agency said. "Drive with caution as there is blowing and drifting snow, and roads are snow covered," MnDOT said in a statement. The powerful storm didn't bring quite as much snow as originally forecast, said National Weather Service meteorologist Paige Marten. But places such as Apple Valley came close with 19.1 inches, and Prior Lake at 17.5 inches and Burnsville at 16.9 inches were close behind. Other cities getting 15 inches or more included Minneapolis, Hopkins, Eagan, Savage, Oakdale and Lakeville, the National Weather Service said. A foot or more was common in several suburbs, the Weather Service added. "The storm might be a little underperforming, but the impact between a foot and 18 inches is likely the same," Marten said. Totals at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport — the official measuring spot for the metro area — would need to hit 16 inches to make the storm one of the 10th largest in Minnesota since 1884. The Weather Service said it would release official totals once the snow was finished. Only 13.1 inches had been recorded at the airport. Rob Daniel heard for days on TV that 16 to 22 inches of snow was coming, but said he got about half that at his home in Big Lake. "Seems like every storm they predict is never what they say it is," the self-proclaimed snow hater said. "I wish they could be more accurate." The dumping, however, was enough for Daniel's employer in New Brighton to give him Thursday off, and he was thankful for that. "I'll stay home and write songs and hang with my best friend," Daniel said. "It's his birthday so we'll make it a great day. If we get out, we do, or we'll just sing songs. It's a win-win." Storm and blizzard warnings covering the southern two-thirds of the state expired at noon. But travel was still difficult, the Weather Service said. Roads on Thursday afternoon in the metro area remained snow-covered and treacherous. Plows cleared Interstate 90, which drifted shut between Worthington and Adrian in southwestern Minnesota allowing the freeway to reopen.. "This is not a great time to be out there," said Anne Meyer, a MnDOT spokeswoman. "This might be the worst of the season." More than 200 plows were clearing roads in the Twin Cities and hundreds more were on the job in Greater Minnesota, she said. Strong winds were leading to blowing and drifting, covering roads and intersections, creating challenging conditions for plow drivers. "Front-wheel drive vehicles are getting stuck making simple turns," the Chaska Police Department said. "The drifts are getting high. Stay off the roads." From 7:30 to 11:30 a.m. Thursday, the State Patrol responded to 31 crashes and 52 spinouts statewide. Over the past three days, the agency responded to 3,182 calls to 911, according to a governor's office news release. "I am immensely grateful to the snow plow drivers, state troopers, first responders and members of the Minnesota National Guard for working tirelessly to provide aid to Minnesotans and making sure our roads and highways are as safe as possible," Gov. Tim Walz said in a statement. State Rep. Jeff Brand, DFL-St. Peter, was stuck in the Twin Cities for the storm. On Thursday, he rode along in MnDOT's infamous snowplow, Plowy McPlowFace. He didn't see any crashes, but "it was messy, that's for sure," Brand said. Metro Transit canceled some bus trips Thursday morning as bus drivers couldn't get to work, the agency said, advising riders to "delay travel if you can." At 10 a.m., 32% of buses were running an average of 4 minutes late. Light rail trains were on time, the agency said. The Minnesota Valley Transit Authority said 15% of its buses were running behind schedule. Rochester Public Transit officials suspended two bus routes Thursday, warning other routes would likely experience delays. The hefty dumping had schools shuttered for a second straight day, with students getting another day off or taking classes online Thursday. In Rochester, Thursday marked the sixth snow day district officials have called this school year. More than 200 flights had been scrubbed by mid-morning at MSP, according to the flight tracking website flightaware.com Snow emergencies remained in effect in Minneapolis, St. Paul and several Twin Cities area suburbs Thursday morning.  Many Allina Health clinics and urgent care centers were closed Thursday, but urgent care locations in Apple Valley, Coon Rapids and Woodbury stayed open. Surgeries and procedures at Allina Health hospitals were still planned, but "it's possible we may need to cancel a scheduled surgery or procedure on short notice due to the storm," Allina said. In what has become the 17th snowiest winter on record, and a season that has already brought nearly 70 inches of snow, Daniel said he's hoping there isn't much more to come. "This winter has been terrible," he said. "In two months, we'll be sitting on the deck." Here's hoping. Staff writers Jessie Van Berkel and Trey Mewes contributed to this report.