It was not snow that marred Monday morning's commute, but rain and freezing rain that coated highways, freeways and sidewalks and led to scores of crashes and spinouts. A pileup involving 11 vehicles on the ramp from northbound Hwy. 100 to eastbound Interstate 394 was most dramatic, but icy conditions across the metro and the state kept the State Patrol busy. Overnight lows for Monday into Tuesday were forecast well below freezing, so the slick conditions could continue. A chance for rain and snow was in the forecast again on Tuesday night and Wednesday, the National Weather Service said. Monday's large wreck happened just before 6 a.m. Minnesota Department of Transportation cameras showed motorists driving over snowbanks and onto the mainline of I-394 in an effort to avoid a collision. One person was hurt but not critically, said Sgt. Gordon Shank with the State Patrol. The ramp was closed for about two hours. Between 6 and 11 a.m. Monday, troopers responded to 115 crashes and 81 vehicles that spun out and went off the road. A semi went into the ditch on I-94 near Rothsay while several crashes were reported on Interstate 94 between the northwestern Minnesota town and Albertville in the far northwest metro, said Sgt. Jesse Grabow with the State Patrol.   By 6 a.m. Monday, the Weather Service had received .87 inches of precipitation, a record for Feb. 27. The precipitation included both rain and freezing rain. "It's anomalously moist today," the Weather Service said. All that water combined with temperatures at or above freezing  plus melting snow created deep puddles on roads and flooding on many streets. In Minneapolis, crews were out clearing storm drains, spokeswoman Sarah McKenzie said. "We are seeing localized issues across the city due to the recent snowstorm, warm temps and rain this morning," she said. "Please report issues to 311 and we will get them addressed." In St. Paul, officials put out a similar plea and asked residents to help Public Works crews clear drains in their neighborhoods. "This helps prevent localized street flooding by allowing runoff to drain into the storm sewer system," the city said in a tweet.   