Edina, goaltender, senior A sixth-year starter, she saved the best for last. Corniea leads Edina back to the state tournament this week with ridiculous numbers. She posted nine shutouts, stopped 96% of shots faced and permits a paltry 0.9 goals per game. One opposing coach said, "You get off the bus down a goal against her." College plan: Princeton Andover, forward, senior Scored 22 goals and posted a team-best 44 assists for the defending Class 2A tournament champion Huskies. Her coach, Melissa Volk, called Goettl the most consistent of Andover's talented forwards. An opposing coach added: "She's all over the ice. If you lose her around the net, boom, she puts the puck in." College plan: Minnesota Hill-Murray, defense, senior Pioneers coach Shawn Reid summed up his praise of Hause by stating, "She does not stop playing hard." An opposing coach raved, "She can play shutdown defense, then can rush up the ice to score the game-winning goal. She is a pleasure to watch." Hause finished with 19 goals and 25 assists. College plan: St. Thomas Minnetonka, defense, senior What doesn't Hemp do? Skippers coach Tracy Cassano raved: "She plays half the hockey game. She scores and she shuts down other teams' top forwards. She has the speed, hands, smarts and vision. She does it all." Brings nine goals and 29 assists into the Class 2A tournament. College plan: Minnesota Minnetonka, forward, senior The Star Tribune Metro Player of the Year. Lindsay is dynamic and electric throughout games, and a humble and kind leader off the ice. Led the Skippers with 23 goals despite missing four games to play with Team USA in the Under-18 Women's World Championship for a second consecutive year. College plan: Minnesota Maple Grove, forward, senior Played with the Crimson in the Class 2A, Section 5 championship game four consecutive seasons. Finished with 27 goals and a career-high 31 assists. Known for a quick release on her shot and for always striving to improve. "She is a force to be reckoned with and can win games for her team," an opposing coach said. College plan: Penn State Ella Boerger, Andover, forward, senior: Buried 40 goals to help her team back to the Class 2A state tournament. Makes smart plays in all areas of the rink. College plan: St. Thomas Chloe Boreen, Hill-Murray, forward, junior: Quick and skilled, Boreen parlayed her shooting ability into a 40-goal season. College plan: undecided Hailey Hansen, Blaine, goalie, senior: Ranks sixth in Class 2A with 832 shots faced but is the only goalie in that group to have allowed fewer than two goals per game. College plan: Minnesota State Mankato Suzy Higuchi, Blake, forward, senior: Led the Bears with 68 points, an output stemming from her nonstop motor and strong play in all zones. College plan: Yale Josie Lang, Stillwater, defense, junior: First-year Ponies coach Annie Cashman hailed Lang as "our MVP in every single way." Finished third on her team with 33 points (14 goals, 19 assists). College plan: Providence Cailin Mumm, Andover, defense, junior: Opposing coaches can't keep mum about her game. One said she "can't be beaten one-against-one." Also provided five goals and 25 assists. College plan: St. Thomas THIRD TEAM Forwards Makayla Moran, sophomore, Apple Valley; Lauren O'Hara, senior, Centennial; Ayla Puppe, junior, Northfield; Grace Sadura, senior, Minnetonka; Josie St. Martin, junior, Stillwater; Ella Tuccitto, senior, Simley. Defense Jenessa Gazdik, senior, Gentry Academy; Carly Humphrey, junior, Elk River/Zimmerman; Laine DeVries, senior, Chisago Lakes; Marie Moran, senior, Apple Valley. Goaltenders Sedona Blair, senior, Holy Family; Grace Zhan, junior, Hill-Murray. How the team was chosen: The Star Tribune's All-Metro teams and Metro Player of the Year were chosen based on nominations from metro-area coaches, conversations with a panel of coaches and staff observations.