Retiring Minnesota State Fair General Manager Jerry Hammer will be succeeded in the post by one of his three deputies for the past 13 years, Renee Alexander, the organization announced Monday. Although she's been in charge of entertainment and marketing at the fair for more than a decade, Alexander started as a summer intern at the fair in 1989 and said she "absolutely fell in love with the magical piece of being part of something larger than myself." Hammer called Alexander, 56, perfect for the job. "She has a deep understanding and appreciation for the State Fair's powerful impact here in Minnesota and beyond. She knows what it takes to keep the shine on our state treasure," Hammer said in a statement. Alexander's initial stint with the fair in entertainment and marketing lasted through 1994 when she left to work at other entertainment organizations. She returned to the fair in 2005. "When I was given the opportunity to come back, I said, 'I'm not leaving this time,' " she said in an interview. It's a big transition for the fair and Hammer, now in his 27th year as CEO, but the choice of an internal successor who understands the operation and traditions strongly suggests the board is happy with the direction of the fair and the staff. "We've got a really great foundation and a really solid event," Alexander said. State Fair Board President Joe Scapanski said they selected Alexander after a national search and are confident she's the right choice. "The Great Minnesota Get-Together is world famous for its tradition of excellence," he said. "We're looking forward to Renee's vision of maintaining that tradition and building on the State Fair's amazing legacy." In her current role, Alexander oversaw all the fair's entertainment programs, including booking and producing events at the grandstand. She also led the State Fair's educational programming, marketing and communications, media relations, web and publications, archives and ticketing departments. In the past year, the fair has rebounded from a rough chapter caused by COVID-19. The fair was canceled in 2020 for only the sixth time in its history, which predates Minnesota's statehood. Ongoing coronavirus mutations held down attendance in 2021. But the 2022 fair returned to pre-COVID levels and ended the year with operating revenue of $67 million. In 2019, operating revenue was $62 million. "The fair has definitely bounced back and it was important for Jerry to see us through that," Alexander said. The incoming general manager is a former board chair of the International Entertainment Buyers Association and an active participant with the International Association of Fairs and Expositions. She has a degree in business communications from the University of Wisconsin in River Falls. She grew up in Coon Rapids and graduated from the high school in 1985. She will step into the new role later this spring when Hammer retires. A fair spokeswoman said compensation is still being worked out so her salary isn't yet known; Hammer's salary was $350,000.