The Wild won't be bringing a win streak home with them, but they're rediscovering the style that works best for them. A 2-1 overtime loss to the Maple Leafs on Friday at Scotiabank Arena snapped their four-game tear, but the Wild still picked up three out of a possible four points by splitting their two-game trip. Overall, the Wild are 5-1-2 in their last eight games. "We liked every part of our game here tonight except missing one point," coach Dean Evason told reporters in Toronto. How the Wild lost: Toronto's William Nylander delivered the tiebreaker 1 minute, 5 seconds into the extra session, unleashing a stealthy shot by Wild goalie Filip Gustavsson after scooping up the puck along the boards and darting to the inside to cap off a two-point performance. This was the 18th time in 25 starts Gustavsson has given up two goals or less, but his win streak ended at three games. Still, the netminder is 4-0-2 in his last six appearances. He totaled 22 saves. Minus the breakdown on the game-winning goal, the Wild were mostly stingy in their own end, an impressive feat against a lineup as deep as Toronto's; Maple Leafs leading scorer Mitch Marner is on the team's second line, which is centered by Ryan O'Reilly after the former Blues captain was acquired last week in a trade that the Wild helped broker by taking on some of O'Reilly's remaining contract. But Toronto didn't have the Wild scrambling too often. That's a credit to Gustavsson and the posture in front of him, the team deploying the aggressive, shutdown structure that's been key to the Wild's success. Not only did the Wild dish out a season-high 42 hits, but the Maple Leafs' 24 shots were their fewest in 15 games. "We limited them to very, very little in the offensive zone," Evason said. "So, we were real happy with our defensive game." Turning point: After Toronto blanked on its second power play, the Wild's penalty kill improving to 24-for-24 over the past 11 games, the Wild finally received their first power play with only minutes to go in the third period. The chance felt like the beginning of a textbook finish by the Wild, who have been at their best this season when their offense has been opportunistic. But the team didn't take advantage, and that opened the door for the toss-up that 3-on-3 overtime can be. "It's a fantastic individual play," Evason said of Nylander's highlight-reel goal. The Wild rolled out the same forward lines and defensive pairings from their 2-0 shutout at Columbus on Thursday despite recalling Adam Beckman from the minors, and for the second straight game Brandon Duhaime gave the Wild a first-period lead. His bank shot at 12:10 rang up as his third goal in the last four games. Toronto responded at 16:07 when David Kampf one-timed in a behind-the-net feed from Nylander. Maple Leafs goalie Ilya Samsonov had 24 saves. What it means: During this trip, the Wild leapfrogged Colorado for third in the Central Division and moved into the battle for first place. That's right: after stumbling out of the All-Star break, the Wild's progress the last two weeks has them only two points back of No. 1 Dallas, a climb reflective of the team's back-to-basics turnaround. During this revival, the Wild have had a whopping 10 of their last 13 games decided by one goal and that experience of playing with a slim margin of error could come in handy the rest of the season. The Star Tribune did not send the writer of this article to the game. This was written using a broadcast, interviews and other material.