HARTFORD, Conn.  — In a rematch of last season's women's national championship game, South Carolina came out on top again over UConn thanks to a strong fourth quarter by Aliyah Boston. Geno Auriemma stepping onto the court to spike a water botte, that helped them, too. Boston scored 23 of her 26 points in the second half, including 14 in the final period, to help the No. 1 Gamecocks beat the fifth-ranked Huskies 81-77 on Sunday in front of a sellout crowd. "Aliyah is just relentless, she plays relentlessly although she had a subpar (first half) as far as statistics, she impacted the game," South Carolina coach Dawn Staley said. "She doesn't get flustered. she knew she didn't play up to her standards. What does she do? Raise her standard. Bad first half or not she's going to continue to play." While there wasn't as much on the line as the title game last April, there was a high intensity to it, including Auriemma getting the technical late in the fourth quarter after getting frustrated by the officiating enough to throw the bottle. "I thought there were a lot of things being overlooked. It was difficult for some of our guys to move out on the floor," said Auriemma, UConn's coach. "I didn't think it was one key play, I just couldn't keep quiet any longer. It was bad. ... Dumb mistake by me. Bad decision." The Gamecocks (23-0) have won 29 consecutive games since losing to Kentucky in the SEC Tournament title game last year. They've won four of the past five meetings with the Huskies, including a victory in the NCAA championship game last season. That ended UConn's perfect 11-0 record in title games. "This was a national championship-like game. I wanted us to feel what it takes to do this," Staley said. Now South Carolina finally has a win in Connecticut after winning there before. South Carolina used its size again to top the Huskies. The 6-foot-7 Kamilla Cardoso and Boston, the reigning AP Player of the Year helped the Gamecocks have a 42-30 advantage on the boards, including grabbing 25 offensive rebounds. Boston finished with 11 rebounds for the 76th double-double of her career. Cardoso added 17 points and 11 rebounds before fouling out. With her team leading by four in the fourth quarter, Boston took over. She scored the next 12 points for South Carolina, two of those came when Auriemma tossed the water onto the court and was charged with the technical foul. Boston hit the two free throws. She then hit a jumper, a 3-pointer and another basket to give the Gamecocks a double-digit advantage. "I'm kind of in attack mode. In the second half I made more shots then I did in the first half," Boston said. Despite seeing their starting backcourt foul out, the short-handed Huskies (21-3) wouldn't go away. They whittled the lead down to 80-77 with 10.8 seconds left on Aubrey Griffin's three-point play. Raven Johnson hit the first of two free throws a second later and UConn couldn't convert to close out the game "They have a lot to feel good about once they get past what it feels like to lose," Auriemma said. "I feel better at 3 o'clock today then I did at 12 o'clock. I didn't know how we'd respond. I knew we'd play hard and compete like hell. I didn't know who was going to make a big play, who was going to get a big rebound, make a big shot. I know now more than I did at noon and I feel better about my team." Aaliyah Edwards led UConn with 25 points. UConn got off to a solid start, outscoring South Carolina 25-14 in the opening period. Lou Lopez Senechal capped the strong start, hitting a running 3-pointer just before the buzzer. South Carolina asserted its size in the second quarter with Cardoso scoring 11 points in the period. Her putback with just under 10 seconds left tied the game at 34 heading into the half. TIP-INS: UConn is 8-10 against No. 1 teams all time. ... The Huskies are still missing guards Azzi Fudd (knee), Caroline Ducharme (concussion) as well as Paige Bueckers (knee) and Ice Brady (knee), who are both out for the season. ... Many former UConn players were in the crowd including Sue Bird, Jen Rizzotti, and Napheesa Collier sitting a few rows behind the Huskies bench. ... South Carolina has gone 41-6 against ranked teams since the start of the 2019-20 season. DEPTH: The Gamecocks reserves outscored UConn's 37-0. The Huskies only had eight healthy players. UP NEXT: South Carolina: visits Auburn on Thursday before a showdown with No. 3 LSU on Feb. 12 UConn: visits Marquette on Wednesday. ___ AP women's college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/womens-college-basketball and https://apnews.com/hub/ap-top-25-womens-college-basketball-poll and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25