Ramsey County Sheriff Bob Fletcher is detailing how he swiftly will reduce his jail's population as ordered by the state Department of Corrections, which has alleged that insufficient staffing levels were posing serious physical harm to people confined to the facility. Dozens of inmates will be moved from the jail to the county workhouse, jails in other counties and to state prisons, Fletcher said in a letter sent Monday to Minnesota Department of Corrections (DOC) Commissioner Paul Schnell. Schnell said in a letter to Fletcher dated Friday that the jail must reduce its maximum operating capacity to 324 beds, down from 492. Schnell said an ongoing investigation found violations of five state rules designed to ensure jails have enough staff on duty to keep the facilities' populations safe. The jail's population was about 370 people as of the end of last week, said county spokeswoman Rose Lindsay. That compares to 444 in October, but still exceeds the new mandate. Schnell's letter instructs the jail to be in compliance with the new threshold by noon Wednesday. Fletcher's letter to Schnell outlines what he calls "action steps" to reduce the jail population immediately: Fletcher has said he's been aggressively recruiting and hiring more corrections officers, but county leadership needs to provide more resources and make better use of other facilities,  such as the workhouse for inmates. In concert with Monday's letter, Fletcher took to Facebook to show that the county board has been aware of the jail's overpopulation since early May but has failed to solve the problem. The posting includes video of him addressing the board with the issue multiple times last year. The posting appears to be pushback to comments made over the weekend from County Board Chair Trista MatasCastillo, who said the concerns raised to Fletcher's Office from public health officials, including some who work in the jail, went "unanswered." MatasCastillo said county leadership then voluntarily took the concerns to the DOC. Schnell letter described four incidents that violated Minnesota's requirements for checking on the well-being of people in jails and providing them with medical care in a timely manner: Star Tribune staff writer Andy Mannix contributed to this report.   